README.md, before:

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/puppeteer-ruby.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/puppeteer-ruby)

# Puppeteer in Ruby [UNDER HEAVY DEVELOPMENT]

A Ruby port of [puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/).

![logo](puppeteer-ruby.png)

REMARK: This Gem is NOT production-ready!!

## Getting Started

### Capture a site

```ruby
Puppeteer.launch(headless: false) do |browser|
  page = browser.pages.first || browser.new_page
  page.goto("https://github.com/YusukeIwaki")
  page.screenshot(path: "YusukeIwaki.png")
end
```

### Simple scraping

```ruby
require 'puppeteer'

Puppeteer.launch(headless: false, slow_mo: 50, args: ['--guest', '--window-size=1280,800']) do |browser|
  page = browser.pages.first || browser.new_page
  page.viewport = Puppeteer::Viewport.new(width: 1280, height: 800)
  page.goto("https://github.com/", wait_until: 'domcontentloaded')

  form = page.S("form.js-site-search-form")
  searchInput = form.S("input.header-search-input")
  searchInput.type_text("puppeteer")
  await_all(
    page.async_wait_for_navigation,
    searchInput.async_press("Enter"),
  )

  list = page.S("ul.repo-list")
  items = list.SS("div.f4")
  items.each do |item|
    title = item.Seval("a", "a => a.innerText")
    puts("==> #{title}")
  end
end
```

### Evaluate JavaScript

```ruby
Puppeteer.launch do |browser|
  page = browser.pages.last || browser.new_page
  page.goto 'https://github.com/YusukeIwaki'

  # Get the "viewport" of the page, as reported by the page.
  dimensions = page.evaluate(<<~JAVASCRIPT)
  () => {
    return {
      width: document.documentElement.clientWidth,
      height: document.documentElement.clientHeight,
      deviceScaleFactor: window.devicePixelRatio
    };
  }
  JAVASCRIPT

  puts "dimensions: #{dimensions}"
  # => dimensions: {"width"=>800, "height"=>600, "deviceScaleFactor"=>1}
end
```

More usage examples can be found [here](https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby-example)

## :whale: Running in Docker

Following packages are required.

* Google Chrome or Chromium
  * In Debian-based images, `google-chrome-stable`
  * In Alpine-based images, `chromium`

Also, CJK font will be required for Chinese, Japanese, Korean sites.

### References

* Puppeteer official README: https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/troubleshooting.md#running-puppeteer-in-docker
* puppeteer-ruby example: https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby-example/tree/master/docker_chromium

## :bulb: Collaboration with Selenium or Capybara

It is really remarkable that we can use puppeteer functions in existing Selenium or Capybara codes, with a few configuration in advance.

```ruby
require 'spec_helper'

RSpec.describe 'hotel.testplanisphere.dev', type: :feature do
  before {
    visit 'https://hotel.testplanisphere.dev/'

    # acquire Puppeteer::Browser instance, by connecting Chrome with DevTools Protocol.
    @browser = Puppeteer.connect(
                 browser_url: 'http://localhost:9222',
                 default_viewport: Puppeteer::Viewport.new(width: 1280, height: 800))
  }

  after {
    # release Puppeteer::Browser reesource.
    @browser.disconnect
  }

  it 'can be handled with puppeteer and assert with Capybara' do
    # automation with puppeteer
    puppeteer_page = @browser.pages.first
    puppeteer_page.wait_for_selector('li.nav-item')

    reservation_link = puppeteer_page.SS('li.nav-item')[1]

    await_all(
      puppeteer_page.async_wait_for_navigation,
      reservation_link.async_click,
    )

    # expectation with Capybara DSL
    expect(page).to have_text('宿泊プラン一覧')
  end

  it 'can be handled with Capybara and assert with puppeteer' do
    # automation with Capybara
    page.all('li.nav-item')[1].click

    # expectation with puppeteer
    puppeteer_page = @browser.pages.first
    body_text = puppeteer_page.Seval('body', '(el) => el.textContent')
    expect(body_text).to include('宿泊プラン一覧')
  end
```

The detailed step of configuration can be found [here](https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby-example/tree/master/_with_capybara-rspec).

## API

https://yusukeiwaki.github.io/puppeteer-ruby-docs/

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby.

Commit message:

Add installation instructions to README.md
There is a conflicting rubygem that isn't related to this project called `puppeteer`. This adds explicit instructions.

Fixes https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby/issues/49

README.md, after:

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/puppeteer-ruby.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/puppeteer-ruby)

# Puppeteer in Ruby [UNDER HEAVY DEVELOPMENT]

A Ruby port of [puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/).

![logo](puppeteer-ruby.png)

REMARK: This Gem is NOT production-ready!!

## Getting Started

### Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'puppeteer-ruby'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install puppeteer-ruby

### Capture a site

```ruby
Puppeteer.launch(headless: false) do |browser|
  page = browser.pages.first || browser.new_page
  page.goto("https://github.com/YusukeIwaki")
  page.screenshot(path: "YusukeIwaki.png")
end
```

### Simple scraping

```ruby
require 'puppeteer'

Puppeteer.launch(headless: false, slow_mo: 50, args: ['--guest', '--window-size=1280,800']) do |browser|
  page = browser.pages.first || browser.new_page
  page.viewport = Puppeteer::Viewport.new(width: 1280, height: 800)
  page.goto("https://github.com/", wait_until: 'domcontentloaded')

  form = page.S("form.js-site-search-form")
  searchInput = form.S("input.header-search-input")
  searchInput.type_text("puppeteer")
  await_all(
    page.async_wait_for_navigation,
    searchInput.async_press("Enter"),
  )

  list = page.S("ul.repo-list")
  items = list.SS("div.f4")
  items.each do |item|
    title = item.Seval("a", "a => a.innerText")
    puts("==> #{title}")
  end
end
```

### Evaluate JavaScript

```ruby
Puppeteer.launch do |browser|
  page = browser.pages.last || browser.new_page
  page.goto 'https://github.com/YusukeIwaki'

  # Get the "viewport" of the page, as reported by the page.
  dimensions = page.evaluate(<<~JAVASCRIPT)
  () => {
    return {
      width: document.documentElement.clientWidth,
      height: document.documentElement.clientHeight,
      deviceScaleFactor: window.devicePixelRatio
    };
  }
  JAVASCRIPT

  puts "dimensions: #{dimensions}"
  # => dimensions: {"width"=>800, "height"=>600, "deviceScaleFactor"=>1}
end
```

More usage examples can be found [here](https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby-example)

## :whale: Running in Docker

Following packages are required.

* Google Chrome or Chromium
  * In Debian-based images, `google-chrome-stable`
  * In Alpine-based images, `chromium`

Also, CJK font will be required for Chinese, Japanese, Korean sites.

### References

* Puppeteer official README: https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/troubleshooting.md#running-puppeteer-in-docker
* puppeteer-ruby example: https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby-example/tree/master/docker_chromium

## :bulb: Collaboration with Selenium or Capybara

It is really remarkable that we can use puppeteer functions in existing Selenium or Capybara codes, with a few configuration in advance.

```ruby
require 'spec_helper'

RSpec.describe 'hotel.testplanisphere.dev', type: :feature do
  before {
    visit 'https://hotel.testplanisphere.dev/'

    # acquire Puppeteer::Browser instance, by connecting Chrome with DevTools Protocol.
    @browser = Puppeteer.connect(
                 browser_url: 'http://localhost:9222',
                 default_viewport: Puppeteer::Viewport.new(width: 1280, height: 800))
  }

  after {
    # release Puppeteer::Browser reesource.
    @browser.disconnect
  }

  it 'can be handled with puppeteer and assert with Capybara' do
    # automation with puppeteer
    puppeteer_page = @browser.pages.first
    puppeteer_page.wait_for_selector('li.nav-item')

    reservation_link = puppeteer_page.SS('li.nav-item')[1]

    await_all(
      puppeteer_page.async_wait_for_navigation,
      reservation_link.async_click,
    )

    # expectation with Capybara DSL
    expect(page).to have_text('宿泊プラン一覧')
  end

  it 'can be handled with Capybara and assert with puppeteer' do
    # automation with Capybara
    page.all('li.nav-item')[1].click

    # expectation with puppeteer
    puppeteer_page = @browser.pages.first
    body_text = puppeteer_page.Seval('body', '(el) => el.textContent')
    expect(body_text).to include('宿泊プラン一覧')
  end
```

The detailed step of configuration can be found [here](https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby-example/tree/master/_with_capybara-rspec).

## API

https://yusukeiwaki.github.io/puppeteer-ruby-docs/

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/YusukeIwaki/puppeteer-ruby.
